# SMPTE Linear Timecode Decoder

> Source: https://help.qsys.com/Content/Schematic_Library/linear_timecode_decoder.htm

# SMPTE LTC Reader

The SMPTE LTC Reader reads a Linear Timecode (LTC) in an audio signal, per the SMPTE 12M specification. The LTC Reader gives you readouts of the Hours, Minutes, Seconds, and Frames per second. There is an LED to indicate if there are any dropped frames, and a user set offset.

Use the Control Pins connected to a [Control Script](control_script_2.htm) component with an appropriate [Lua script](../Control_Scripting/Using_Lua_in_Q-Sys/01_Using_Lua_in_Q-Sys_Overview.htm) to trigger actions within Q-SYS at a specific point in the audio file containing a Timecode, or at a specific point generated by the [SMPTE LTC Generator](linear_timecode_encoder.htm).

[Inputs and Outputs](javascript:void(0))

### Input Pins

#### Input

Audio signal pins are represented by a () circle, and traditional wiring is represented by a thin black line. You can use Signal Names on audio signal pins.

By default, the SMPTE LTC Reader component only has one input pin available.

### Output Pins

This component does not have any output pins available.

[Properties](javascript:void(0))

**Tip:** For additional properties that are not listed, refer to the [Properties Panel](../Q-Sys_Designer/properties_panel.htm) help topic for more information.

### SMPTE LTC Reader Properties

This component has no configurable properties.

[Controls](javascript:void(0))

#### Frame Rate (fps)

Displays the detected incoming frame rate. Displays "*Tracking...*" when the frame rate is being determined, such as during frame rate changes.

#### Hours

Displays the number of elapsed hours, from 0-23.

#### Minutes

Displays the number of elapsed minutes, from 0-59.

#### Seconds

Displays the number of elapsed seconds, from 0-59.

#### Frames (fps)

Displays the number of elapsed frames, from 0-29.

#### Drop Frame

The indicator illuminates to indicate Drop Frame mode.

#### Offset

The frame offset, from 0-10, is added to the decoded time to compensate for the fact that the timecode lags the current frame by one frame. Add 1 frame to compensate. You would add more frames to compensate for the time it takes Q-SYS to make any changes required by the Lua script.

[Control Pins](javascript:void(0))

| Pin Name | Value | String | Position | Pins Available |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Drop Frame | 0  1 | false  true | 0  1.00 | Output |
| Frame Offset | 0 - 10 | 0 - 10 | 0  0.100  0.200  ...  1.00 | Input / Output |
| Frames | 0 -29 | 0 - 29 | 0 to 1.00 [1](#Increments) | Output |
| Hours | 0 - 23 | 0 - 23 | 0.00 to 1.00 | Output |
| Minutes | 0 - 59 | 0 - 59 | 0.00 to 1.00  (0.017 increments) | Output |
| Seconds | 0 - 59 | 0 - 59 | 0.00 to 1.00 (0.017 increments) | Output |
| Time  (elapsed time in seconds) | 0.00 - 86399 | 0.00s - 86399s | 0.00 - 1.00 | Output |
| Timecode  (hours:minutes:seconds:frames) | Text display HH:MM:SS:FF | | | Output |
|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1. The increments in the position control depend on the number of frames per second. | | | | |
